So, guys, in this lecture video, we will going to discuss the preprocessor directives in C or C++,
both the languages that A, C and C++ supports preprocessing directives.
So before Compiler actually compiles the source files, it performs the text substitution.
Now, we know this already.
The C preprocessor directives are just a simple text substitution tool.
So what are preprocessor directives in a C code?
Any language to start with?
Hash Symbol is a preprocessor directive, and the two most commonly used preprocessor directives are
hash include and has defined.
So remember, text substitution is performed first before the compiler actually starts the compilation
of source files.
Now, this is something very important, and I was going to explain this point more collaboratively
in the coming sleights directives can be written and bought the source files as well as halophiles.
Now, following is a list of most common preprocessor directives, which we use in our day to day coding
in C or C++.
So you can see that there are many preprocessor directives that is has defined hash include hash, undef,
hash of def hash, if not define hash of hash, URLs, hash, alif and hash.
And of course there are a few more preprocessor directives, but their discussion is not relevant here.
So you can see that preprocessor directives always start with the hash symbol and they are called preprocessor
because they are processed before actually the compiler starts compilation of source file rubinow going
to understand that how preprocessor directives are executed.
So please go through these preprocessor directives and try to understand that what is the function of
each of these preprocessing directives?
So now going forward.
Consider the following simple C-code, right.
So let us go through this code line by line.
You can see that using has defined preprocessing directive.
I have defined it as a constant, which is 10.
Similarly, I have defined another constant be as Trumpy.
Now I have defined a macro square X whose definition is X into X.
Now in this line I'm checking whether the symbol E has been defined or not.
Now please remember that the processing of preprocessor directives happens from top towards the bottom
of the source file.
So by the time the compiler reaches this line, the compiler would know that there is something called
A which is already defined.
Therefore this condition will be true.
And because this statement is true, therefore all the statements which is enclosed between hash, if
define and hash and if will be considered as a part of a code, therefore has to include x start at
will be included.
Now here we are simply saying to undefined the symbol A.
Now, at this point of line in the code, the compiler will forget that there is something called a
ever defined.
Now here we are checking whether a symbol has been defined or not.
Now, of course, this condition will going to be false.
Therefore, all the code which is written in between this hash is defined.
And this has and will not be a part of a code and will be completely omitted.
So this line will not be a part of a code.
Now, going forward, here we are checking whether the symbol is not defined.
Now, this condition will going to be true.
Why?
Because here we have already undefined the symbol A so because this condition is true.
Therefore, this code will be considered as a part of a code.
Therefore, this line will be considered for compilation.
And because this line is encapsulated between hash, URLs and hash, and therefore this line will not
be a part of a final code.
So you can see that the preprocessing directives are process from top to bottom of the source file.
So the final source file that you will get after processing all the pre processing directives will be
simply the contents of extorts.
Each had a file and this line.
So this will be the final content of the source file after processing all the pre processing directives,
so the final source file with the compiler takes as an input for final compilation is actually the source
file, which is ABC Nazi.
So remember, this file is obtained after applying the tech substitution that is all the has to fines
have been replaced by their actual definition, and all the hash includes have been replaced by the
corresponding header files, which they include.
So the final code, which make it to the final version of source file, which will be compiled eventually
by the compiler, is this line, and of course has included will be replaced by the contents of extract
as file.
And another line which makes it to the final court is this line.
Right.
So this is the second line, so apart from these two lines, everything will be omitted from the final
source file and this is the final version of the file, which the compiler takes for compilation.
So now going forward now, let us see how preprocessor directives can solve the problem of duplicate
header file inclusion.